# IoT Device Security
With the surge in the application of lightweight IoT Devices like sensors and smart devices, it has become crucial to protect them from cybercriminals due to their vulnerabilities and nature. These devices become prime targets during cyber attacks to get access to the network these devices are relying on. Due to this rise in the use of IoT devices, it has become essential to protect them by recognizing any kind of anomalies that enter the network. As a result the security concerns have heightened rapidly. To serve this purpose, a lot of research has been done in the field of Behavioral Fingerprinting and Anomaly Detection. Most techniques rely on network-level features to fingerprint these devices using the packet payload and packet headers captured in the form of PCAP files. Training machine learning classification models on this helps us develop individual device fingerprints. However, network level features do not constitute the only source of data that can be used to develop fingerprints. Recent studies have been working on developing device fingerprints using hardware features like Time-Domain and Frequency-Domain analysis and combining the model with sole – Network level features. This model yields much better metrics (Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1-Score) compared to previous models that use only one of the type of features. Our aim is to implement this multi-modal setup on small IoT Devices and recognize them with high accuracy and train Machine Learning and Deep Learning models. Besides a multimodal setup, we aim at testing our models on unsampled open source IoT Datasets to check their validity.
#### This repository contains all the Jupyter Notebooks where I have trained ML Classifiers for different datasets. 
We have used the following datasets:
- UNSW IoT Analytics Dataset (Traffic Traces)
- UNSW NB-15 Network Intrusion Dataset
- Sampled dataset from previous captures using a self-made setup
